BitDew version 0.0.1

BitDew command line client

Usage : java -jar bitdew-stand-alone.jar [Options] Commands [Command Options]

Options:
  -h, --help                    display this helps
  -d, --dir                     working directory
      --host                    service hostname
      --port                    service port

Services:
      serv [dc|dr|dt|ds]        start the list of services separated by a space

Attributes:
      attr attr_definition      create attribute where attr_definition has the syntax att_Name 
                                = {field1=value1, field2=value2}.
                                Field can have the following values :
          replicat=int          number of data replicat in the system. The special value -1    
                                means that the data will be replicated to each node
          affinity=dataId       affinity to data Identifier. Schedule the data on node where   
                                dataId is present.
          lftabs=int            absolute life time. The value is the life duration in minutes.
          lftabs=dataId         relative lifetime. The data will be obsolete when dataId is    
                                deleted.
          oob=protocol          out-of-band file transfer protocol. Protocol can be one of the 
                                following [dummy|ftp|bittorrent]
          ft=[true|false]       fault tolerance. If true data will be rescheduled if one host  
                                holding the data is considered as dead.

